I did not do well in Frigg, that
pole. How big were the classes?
Well, in that class, it
would have been 25 or 30, probably. But none of
these huge ones? Not in Frigg. Now, in chemistry,
Well, in organic chemistry, that was a large, very
large lecture. The lecture part was large, and
then we broke up, you know, and recitation was a
somewhat smaller class. Did you have any of the
legendary faculty member teachers that freshman
year?
I can't remember the name of the guy in Trigg, but
I've always felt that
his approach was not helpful for me because he
really expected you to get it yourself, as a
student, I mean. He just left you. Floundering
right now routine of the day described a class day a
typical routine y'all got up at 6 6 30 Fill out went
to went to chow. Yeah in the morning and back to
through the room pick up books and go go to class and
And did you fall out for lunch? Yes, we fell out for
each meal. We had meal formation. Thursday
afternoons were all TC or drill anyway. And where
did y'all drill?
My freshman year, we drilled on the,
in the area, by Welburn Road, and
also in that open area between Walton, just due
west of Sabeasa. That was our basic area to drill.
Then
come back and get ready for our evening chow. then
did you come back to your dorm room every night for
study yeah uh where did could you or any other fish
escape from that routine during the day where
could you kind of hide out relax well we had the uh
see the memorial student center was new and uh That
was a popular place. Also, you could go to Guyon
Hall and go to the movies in the afternoon. In the
afternoon? Mm-hmm. Oh, I didn't know they had
afternoon movies. Well, maybe this was on the
weekend. Okay. Because I didn't go except on the
weekend, I can think. And did you all go to the
library? I think maybe it was just a Saturday. Did
you go to the library as a hideout? during the day?
Sometimes, uh-huh. But we had a pretty small
library at that time. If you were sleepy and wanted
to take a nap, where could you do that?
The library was probably the safest place, but
that was not something. I
know that that's something that some of the
students would do, but that wasn't my forte, I
guess. Typical behavior in class. Did you all go to
class regularly? Were you wide awake? Yeah,
except after lunch. Well, in the summertime,
especially. No, but in the long semesters. In the
long semester, yeah. Well,
I have much less recall of classes. I remember
animal husbandry, 107. I remember that class
because it was from my background. I had just been
looking forward. having a real easy class. Surely
there would be one that would be really
interesting and really easy, and so I'd look
forward to that. Boy, it was pretty tough. Maurice
Shelton was teaching it. Maurice retired from the
Texas Agricultural Experiment Station out at San
Angelo, goat specialist. But Maurice was
finishing his PhD, so he was really a keen sort of an
individual. And he just, man, he really worked us.
Did that add to your veterinary medicine desire?
that course
well it helped focus it a little bit i had as i
remember that was something that i i did find that
aspect refreshing that at least i was getting to be
around animals a little bit and uh so that that was
helping because all of this other would have been
pretty foreign to veterinary medicine as far as I
could see. I couldn't understand why in the world a
veterinarian had needed to do all of this stuff.
You know, typical college freshman. And you never
thought about changing your major? Not that year.
But see, we're getting to a point now at the end of
this semester because of my problem with organic
chemistry and that intrigue.
I became had become pretty frustrated with
academia and when I went home at Christmas time of
course this was not the end of the semester this was
a Christmas break talked to some guys about my age
out there that were really hauling it in, working
in the oil field. And so I just decided that, well,
at the very least I needed to work, try that for a
while. And I could always go back to school in the
fall and I'd still be on schedule. and so i i laid out
after oh you dropped out i dropped out of school my
dad really tongue-lashed me and my mother cried
you know did did you talk to anybody here and no
advisor or anything here about whether or not that
was a good idea you decided it and did you stay at
home yeah i lived at home and worked uh went to work
for uh a roustabout company that was owned by Dr.
John Milliff's brother. I didn't know that at the
time, of course, that they were. What kind of big
money did you make? Well, I made, starting as a
roustabout, I think I made $1.10 an hour, which was
really pretty good. And I was able to put in a lot of
hours. And before then in the summer, after, well,
maybe this isn't about school, but see, I had made
this decision that I was going to lay out and take a
look at the oil business as a life, you know,
occupation. and so I did and I got this job with this
this roustabout company and my first morning the
first task that that my crew had was to string
a water line for a well that was to be drilled out in a
new oil field that was being developed between
Winters and Coleman. And they got me up, woke me up
about four o'clock that morning, and it was
snowing. And we went out, there were four of us in
the cab of this truck, just sitting on top of one
another, everybody except the driver. And we had a
load of, it was a semi-truck loaded with pipe that
was to be two-inch pipe that was to be, I didn't know
it at the time, but we were going to scatter it over
this rocky terrain. And the first step was for
someone to walk along behind and grab one of them
and pull it off as the truck kind of winded its way
across this ranch land. And then we would come back
and join them together, you know, and do it that
way. Well, guess who got to unload the pipe? The new
guy on the crew. And so that was a real jolt to me, you
know, reality, a lesson in reality. I mean, this
was not what I thought working in the oil field
would be like. nearly froze to death that morning.
And so you did that for spring and summer. In the
summer I started roughnecking. Got a job working
on a drilling rig and making a dollar fifty an hour,
you know. And I thought long and hard about staying
with that company. It was a drilling company out of
Fort Worth and they wanted me to stay. and of course
naturally they would as I look back on it because it
was real hard to find workers all right and but then
anyway I think one of the biggest things
influences was my mother's crying and she was not a
person that did that often but I knew that it I had
really disappointed her by laying out, so I did
come back to A&M to start my sophomore year. Right,
and you're back in the Corps, and you are a few hours
behind being a sophomore? No, I had 30,
maybe 32 hours. I did, I should have had 36, I think.
But I... You're back in the Corps. Uh-huh. In the
same outfit? No, but I cannot remember. It was a
squadron over in the, in the regular Corps area.
What kind of a sophomore were you in your relations
with the fish?
Well, I thought I was pretty benign, but I've had,
there were two or three that I had went to class
with, two or three freshmen who went to class
with me in botany class that thought that I was
Pretty tough sophomore. And how were you fairly
sure that you were taking the right classes that
sophomore year to be sure you were going to be ready
for vet school? Who advised you?
I did not have a... contact with the vet school
until the spring semester. So you're still on your
own. So I guess I'm still in general studies.
And I just do not have the name, you know, there's
not a name there that was influential. Was it
better to be a sophomore in the Corps than it had
been to be a freshman? Yeah, much better in that Of
course, at that point, when I came back, I had
my own agenda pretty well set in my mind as to what I
was going to do and how it was going to be. And I had
resolved that it was veterinary medicine over the
Corps. And so I would participate in the Corps and
meet my obligations, but I wasn't going to get
caught up in it. I think I had to a certain extent as a
freshman. It had become something of a diversion.
What did you do with all of that money that you had
made as a Love Hill employee? Well, it didn't last
very long. You didn't have a car? Yeah, yeah. Oh. I
came back with a 1941 Club Coupe Pontiac. Sure did.
And the average student didn't have a car then.
That's right. Yeah. And I remember two things with
that Club Coupe Pontiac. One was, it was the only
car I ever had where the universal joint broke on
the drive shaft, you know. Talk about a helpless
feeling. But that happened. out in the open
highway between here and Winters. And the other
was brake
line leakage, you know, the old rubber diaphragms
at each wheel, one of those that come off. And we had
gone uptown to, up into downtown Bryan to the, I
guess, the Palace of the Queen and gone to a movie.
There were myself and... two or three buddies. And
we started back and coming out South College, and I
had not even checked the brake pedal, I guess,
until the traffic light there at Hillcrest.
This is a,
not Colter. Oh, there's a mobile station there.
Now, there's a Hillcrest grocery store that's
been there for a long time. But anyway, there was a
traffic light there then, and there still is. And I
put on the brake, and there was nothing. I never
will forget that sensation either. Did you hit
anything? No. But I remember
I just remember turning left onto that street,
whatever the name of it is, that goes on down to what
eventually then where Townshire eventually was
built. During those years, as far as you and your
buddies were aware, were there any Crip courses,
any easy giveaway courses?
Well,
you know, The major, a major that was generally
regarded as kind of sniffed at by a lot of the other
majors was business administration. If you were a
BA major, that usually did not. That was supposed
to be easy. Yeah, that was supposedly an easy
major. I don't know whether that was true or not. As
far as you and your buddies were aware, were there
any giveaway courses for athletes? Well, I don't
know. You know, this is one of the things that
I've been thinking about as I was reflecting back.
One of the things I'd forgotten from a long time ago
was that You know, we used to have valedictorian, a
stated valedictorian here, at least through the
time it was an A&M college. Now, I don't know when
that practice might have stopped. But the
valedictorian of the class of 52 was a football
player. And he
was a . I mean, he was a sharp guy. And something
else. that I think is
different about that, well, that we saw at that
time was that about a fourth or so of the members,
the inductees into Who's Who in America, American
colleges, would be athletes. Now this is not, I
don't think this reflects catering to them so much
as it did that there were some pretty top flight
individuals as individuals that were, they were
athletes and they were also scholars and they were
also leaders. Who were the, were there some famous
students when you were an undergraduate? that
everybody knew who they were when they walked down
the sidewalk? Well, yeah. In my freshman year, of
course, Bob Smith was an All-American
running back or fullback. I can't remember which.
But everybody recognized him. Darryl Hooper,
Olympian, and also a football player. Now, were
they in uniform during the day? I've seen, yeah,
I've seen both of them in uniform now, but I've also
seen them not in uniform during the day. Were they?
They generally, when you saw them out of uniform in
non-reg, when you saw them non-reg, it was usually
between Hart Hall and the athletic complex. And as
far as y'all remember, those highly, those famous
athletes were pleasant students. They said hello
and they chatted with other people. Yeah, there
were, I
found that, impressive. I see there was a, what was
the guy's name, he was a basketball player that
made an honorable mention in All America, I think.
And he was just a very approachable, just a very
outgoing sort of a guy. Now Bob Smith was pretty
aloof. I remember, one of the things I remember is
going to a movie at the campus theater, One night, I
can't remember what the movie was. It was full.
There was some, I guess it was a special movie or
something. And Bob Smith came in after the house
was pretty well packed. The lights were still on,
though. And his date was one Miss Harrison, Dick
Harrison's sister. And I think maybe they married
eventually. But she was an eye-catcher, too, and a
lot of catcall-type things, you know. And during
that sophomore year, you and your buddies were
involved in all kinds of the traditions. What was
silver taps like for you when you first attended?
Very, very... somber occasions, really, really
emotional to me. Touched your feelings? Yeah.
What about Bonfire? What was Bonfire effort like
then? How long did you and your buddies work on it?
Seemed like forever. Really?
In that particular era of time,
Of course the bonfire, I guess, it was kind of
looked on as a freshman endeavor and a senior
endeavor. Those were the two classes that seemed
to have some identity with any given bonfire. And
so we, our bonfire, our fish bonfire was built on
the, across from the MSC there. Drill field? Drill
field. And it was the TP type that we're going back
to, I think. And no mechanization, none. You know,
I mean, everything was done by hand and slave labor
type. Long lines of students with huge ropes, you
know. Did you, were you in the cut area or the stack
area? Both. I worked more in the stack area than I
did at the cut area. Do you remember, was it rainy?
It was weeks. It was weeks of effort. Yeah, as I
remember now, when I say it seemed like forever, I
understand that was with everything else that was
going on. And no serious injuries. Not that I
recall. Right, then
yell practice. At the Grove, yeah, we went to yell
practice. See, then we had yell practice. You left
the dining room and went to yell practice twice
a week. Was there also a midnight yell practice the
night before the game in the stadium?
I don't remember it. See, I don't think there was. I
don't think so. Do you remember going to Muster as
an undergraduate?
Yeah, but it was, as an upperclassman, quite...
I
believe that was my...
Fifth year here, the year before I finished vet
school. Describe
your freshman year. You all did go through final
review and all that. Well, my freshman year in the
spring. Oh, that you were here, yeah. As your
sophomore, you went through all of that. Yeah, I
went through. But I have very little recollection
of it. Did you and your buddies attend the social
events, the dances and all that? Some of them,
yeah. And did you have some dates? Yeah. Where'd
you get your date from? Well, TWU,
and then there were, I dated, had dates with local
girls two or three times. Where'd you meet them?
church, and at that time I was,
well it was the Baptist Student Union, that was the
college. And that was an important Sunday night
event, wasn't it? Yeah, yeah, and it was. Because
there was food. And girls. And girls. And no
hazing. Yeah. Held at the North Gate. Yeah. Do you
remember Religious Emphasis Week? Yeah, very
well. What was that like? Well, it was hectic in
that everything, you know, if you attended these,
many of the events, like in the dorms, and I
remember, not my sophomore, Well, my sophomore
year, we had a series leader, and I was in dorm two.
And dorm two was one of the dorms that had a lounge
area. And so that's where one of the religious week
series was held. I can't tell you what was
discussed, but I remember it. The thing I remember
about it was that it was thought-provoking. And I
must say that up to that point, you know, I really
hadn't given any depth of thought to religious
matters. So that religious emphasis week did have
some positive results for you. Yeah, it sure did.
My sophomore and... I guess I was more affected or
more, I participated more or attended more my
sophomore, junior, and senior years. Now, went to
movies at Guyon Hall. Were there other events?
There were programs, the equivalent of Opus.
Okay. This was a student. Do you remember any
famous? Town Hall was just started, I guess,
probably. Guyon was still- Do you remember any
famous celebrities that came to perform? Joni
James and-
Were the big bands still coming for the dances?
Yeah, we had some of the dances. I can't remember-
And G. Raleigh was already built? G. Raleigh
White? He was built in 56, I think. Oh, really? 55 or
56. So we're still over. We were at DeWare. At
DeWare.
Describe going to an Aggie football game. What was
the routine on a Saturday?
Y'all went to class all morning. We had class in the
morning, yeah, and... And we just keyed on when we
had to fall in formation to go to the game, to march
into the game. And you did a march in. Yeah. And if
you had a date, you met her in the stadium?
Because she couldn't march in with you. That's
right.
And then what happened during the games for you
fish and sophomores?
Just lots of yelling. I don't think, while I was in
the Corps, I don't think I had a day to do any games.
Then when it was over, did you and your buddies
participate in? As freshmen, we participated in
hauling the yell leaders out. Then what did you all
do on a Saturday night after a game?
Oh, a big thing for us was just to not eat at the
channel, go to North Gate or something like that.
As a freshman, I remember we'd eat at one of the
North Gate places, which, boy, were certainly
not, that wasn't a memorable experience at all.
All right, now, if somebody really wanted to party
in those days, those nights, where did they go?